* Operations management refers to the management of processes for designing, supplying, producing, and delivering products and services to customers. It is about getting the day-to-day work done efficiently, timely, accurately, and at low cost.
* In a hospital setting, operations management decisions include workflow processes such as patient admission time, capacity planning, such as band allocation, staffing levels, and productivity, process improvement, facility optimization, and quality management. 
* In operations management, there are four competitive priorities on dimension, namely quality, timeliness, flexibility, and cost. Quality dimension relates to offering products or services that meet or exceed customer expectations and doing so consistently. Timeliness relates to delivering products or services on time per customer's requirements and possibly ahead of competition. Flexibility dimension relates to customization of products or services to accommodate the needs of customers. Of course, the dimension is about providing products or services that are less expensive than those from competitors. It means focusing on operational efficiencies to drive down costs. These dimensions provide a guide to the organization on what they can compete on. 
* A supply chain is a network of organizations that are involved in the design, production, delivery, consumption, and disposal of goods, services, and related information. It enforced a focal firm's network of supply-side partners, such as components and sub-components suppliers and demand side partners, such as distributors and retailers. 
* Supply chain management entails, integrating business functions and processes within and across organizations in the supply chain so as to achieve a seamless, efficient, and effective performance. 
* In health care, many providers deal with manufractures of diagnostic equipment and medical devices, these distributors, group purchasing organizations, fundamental providers, including janitorial service providers, external lab testing, and so on. Working with all these parties and entities can be daunting and if not well managed, can undermine operations, clinical tasks, and overall financial performance. The complexity and interconnectedness of supply sides have necessitated digitization of the supply chain. A trend that is growing as technology plays a more critical role in supply chain management.
* Relevant Links: https://healthcareready.org/what-is-the-healthcare-supply-chain/#:~:text=The%20healthcare%20supply%20chain%20is,distributed%2C%20and%20provided%20to%20patients
https://www.techtarget.com/revcyclemanagement/feature/Exploring-the-Role-of-Supply-Chain-Management-in-Healthcare
https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/healthcare/our-insights/the-hospital-is-dead-long-live-the-hospital


