Supply chain is a system of transformation and we take resources such as finances, material, labor and equipment and that's what creates the final product in the end.

How do we achieve efficiency? the lean Six Sigma methodology. How would you measure efficiency in your supply chain? Identify metrics that illustrate supply chain efficiency, like inventory turns, financial metrics, time.

Flexibility allows you to react to unanticipated levels of customer demand. How would you achieve flexibility? Well, the one thing is speed. You have to be quick in order to react fast enough. The other one is interchangeability. You need to be as efficient producing different types of products at different times. If you're producing one thing, changing over to another thing should be seamless and quick and easy. Then lastly, it also has to do with design. You have to manufacture products in different ways. For that, you have to develop them so they can be manufactured in different ways. So design plays a very big role in having that flexibility.

Resilient supply chain is one that can face risks, but they don't lead to disruptions. Two factors that are important when it comes to resilience, one is how likely are you to discover a disruption, and the other one is your ability to recover. One is, can you recognize disruptions very early, because if you recognize them early, you have time to avoid them. And the other one is, how good are you at recovering? How good are you at finding alternative ways to doing things until everything comes back to normal? Both of those factors are critical when it comes to building a resilient supply chain.

Generally, lean relies on two main principles, that's just in time, JIT or, and Jidoka, which is error proofing. Because a lean supply chain doesn't have a lot of inventory that just sits around and that just gives you buffers and you have to have a continuous flow of materials, you have to be able to take away any errors and uncertainty that you could possibly have. So, you have to be very careful when it comes to your processes because nothing can go wrong otherwise there's going to be a disruption.

We also have to have a standardized customer focus planning process, which is the Hoishin (Planning), looks far into the future and make sure that all of the plans are done in such a way that we can pull off this continuous flow pull system.

You also want stability. You want your processes to be as level as possible because in a manufacturing environment, you always want to avoid big changes because otherwise, one day you have your machines and your workers working really fast and then the other day they have nothing to do.

 The approach that lean takes, it's an efficiency way of thinking. But the approach is that you have one speed to the supply chain which matches the speed at which your customers come in. So, if your customers buy products more quickly, then you have to work more quickly. And if your customers are a little slower then you'll slow down the entire supply chain. And that speed mechanism is what's really important to lean.

 1. One of the seven wastes is overproduction. If you produce more than what your customers are willing to buy, obviously that' s waste. 2. Second one is inventory. If you believe that your supply chains should be truly just in time, then inventory should be kept to a minimum and inventory itself has no value until it's turned into the final product that a customer wants to buy. 3. Third one is motion. Moving products around just aimlessly back and forth without accomplishing more value or creating more value in the product itself is wasteful. You're not achieving anything by moving a product unless it serves a purpose. 4. Fourth one is defects. If you're building a product that has defects and you created something of inferior value, so what you created ultimately is considered a waste because now you either have to throw it out or somebody has to go back in and fix it. So any defect is considered a waste. 5. Related to that, becomes over-processing, because if you have a defect and you need to work on something a second time after you didn't do it right the first time. So over-processing means you have to do things over and over to get it just right. You ideally want to produce a perfect product from the beginning. 6. Waiting. Having a product just sit there without adding more value to it consistently is wasteful because you can sequence the task in such a way that there's no waiting. So if you can't accomplish that, then having a product just sitting there doing nothing has no value, so it's wasteful. 7. Then finally, transport. Moving products, unless it is to move it to the final customer is not adding any value to the product, it's wasteful. So these are the seven wastes that were originally identified by Toyota and then later on incorporated into Lean thinking.

 Issue                  Traditional             Just-in-Time
 Inventory              Appropriate             Waste
 Lead Time              Appropriate             Minimal
 Batch Size             Optimized EOQ           Ideally One
 Quality                Acceptable Level        Perfection
 Planning               Push                    Pull
 Optimization Focus     Each unit               Entire system
 Focus                  Economies of Scale      System Efficiency

 Jidoka means error proofing and the idea behind it is that you want to build your whole supply chain system in such a way that it is very difficult for individual workers to make mistakes.